

This code is originally based off ToyPlaneFDTD-0.3 and implements the
stencil outlined in

"Kang, Lan, Yaowu, Weigan Lin, "A Higher Order (2,4) Scheme for
Reducing Dispersion in FDTD Algorithm", IEEE Transactions on
Electromagnetic Compatability, vol 41, no 2, may 1999







I refer to xfdtd several times throughout the code. This may change in
the future, but for those who do not know what this is, here is part
of the README file that accompanied that file as a credit to the
authors of that work.

============================================================================
vvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvv

Program :       xyfdtd - 2 dimensional Finite-Difference Time Domain demo
                         program using the Yee algorithm and Mur absorbing
                         boundary conditions. Uses X-windows to display the
                         wave propogation. The input file contains all the
                         input parameter definitions with a sample case.

Author  :       Louis Wilson - Main computational engine
                Jeff Sheffel - X-windows Graphic Interface

e-mail  :       lwilson@netcom.com

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
============================================================================


Please note that ToyPlaneFDTD was not copied or developped in any way
from the aformentioned code.  I simply refer to it as an example of
another publically released 2D FDTD source code which the user may or
may not have encountered before.






Experiment #1
===========================================================================

Try changing the spatial delta and the overall physical dimensions.
Decrease the spatial delta and let the code select the nx and ny.  The
overall mesh will grow in nx and ny yet should remain modeling the
same physical dimensions.  Look carefully at the back side of the
propagating pulse.  What do you see?  Look carefully at the
propagation and specifically at the back side of the propagating
pulse.


Drop dx and dy to 0.015 or half it's current value and the mesh size
should increase to 512x512.  The simulation will take a bit longer to
run since it is now four times as big. The mesh dimensions were
doubled on each side for (2*256)x(2*256) = 4*(256x256).

You may want to turn off one of MTV or PNM output or change the plot
modulo as the MTV and PNM files become large very quickly.

Try a third the current spatial delta at 0.01 and 768x768.

To view the images at the same physical size as the original one could
do the following:

display -geometry 50% *.pnm
or
display -geometry 256x256 *.pnm

for the 512x512 simulation.  Display is an image viewing tool from
ImageMagick and is listed in the software `related software' section.

Experiment #2
===========================================================================

Try increasing the overall dimensions and leave the spatial delta the
same.  This will move the outer boundaries farther away from the PEC
plate and initial excitation and allow study of the plate interactions
because the outer boundaries have now been moved out far enough to
avoid interactions until later in the simulation.  Thus, an artificial
boundary can sometimes be moved away from the area of interaction in
order to study the problem at hand.


